## Introduction

Thank you for viewing my personal project. This project is still ongoing
as I am exploring different ways to visualize and display data to a
general audience. This project is programmed in R and the following
packages are used: ggplot2, rmarkdown. The data set from this project
was gathered from IMDb and collectively published on Kaggle by Muhammad
Adil Talay. For more information on the data set, visit
<https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/muhammadadiltalay/imdb-video-games>.
The following questions I am currently exploring are: What is the
average rating for each video game genre? What is the most popular video
game in each genre? With no further ado, let’s begin by analyzing our
first game genre—Action.

## Action Video Games

![Figure 1: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for action video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-2-1.png)

There are 11930 action games. The distribution of ratings for action
games is left skewed with an average rating of 7.07 and a standard
deviation of 1.22. The most popular action video game(s) by rating
is/are Red Dead Redemption II, The Last of Us, Uncharted 2: Among
Thieves, God of War III, Shadow the Hedgehog, Chrono Trigger+, Gundam
Area Wars, Another Century’s Episode, DoubleShake, DX-Ball, Fast and
Furious: Super Cars.

## Adventure Video Games

![Figure 2: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for adventure video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)

There are 10334 adventure games. The distribution of ratings for
adventure games is left skewed with an average rating of 7.25 and a
standard deviation of 1.16. The most popular adventure video game(s) by
rating is/are Red Dead Redemption II, Horizon Forbidden West, Xenoblade
Chronicles 3, Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain, Command & Conquer:
Red Alert 3 - Uprising, Terrorist Takedown: War in Colombia, Lady Sia,
Railfan: Taiwan High Speed Rail, Silhouette Mirage, Ratchet & Clank:
Before the Nexus, S.P.Y.: Special Project Y..

## Comedy Video Games

![Figure 3: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for comedy video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png)

There are 1783 comedy games. The distribution of ratings for comedy
games is left skewed with an average rating of 7.19 and a standard
deviation of 1.19. The most popular comedy video game(s) by rating
is/are Bayonetta 2, The Lord of the Rings: War in the North, Over the
Hedge.

## Crime Video Games

![Figure 4: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for crime video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)

There are 895 crime games. The distribution of ratings for crime games
is left skewed with an average rating of 7.32 and a standard deviation
of 1.18. The most popular crime video game(s) by rating is/are
Spider-Man, Hunt Down the Freeman.

## Family Video Games

![Figure 5: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for family video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-6-1.png)

There are 2875 family games. The distribution of ratings for family
games is left skewed with an average rating of 6.69 and a standard
deviation of 1.31. The most popular family video game(s) by rating
is/are God of War, Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga, Control,
Assassin’s Creed: Brotherhood.

## Fantasy Video Games

![Figure 6: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for fantasy video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-7-1.png)

There are 4350 fantasy games. The distribution of ratings for fantasy
games is left skewed with an average rating of 7.26 and a standard
deviation of 1.15. The most popular fantasy video game(s) by rating
is/are Fortnite, Mass Effect 2, Jurassic Park Arcade.

## Mystery Video Games

![Figure 7: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for mystery video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-8-1.png)

There are 1185 mystery games. The distribution of ratings for mystery
games is left skewed with an average rating of 7.45 and a standard
deviation of 1. The most popular mystery video game(s) by rating is/are
Castlevania: Lords of Shadow, Plants vs. Zombies.

## Sci-Fi Video Games

![Figure 8: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for sci-fi video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-9-1.png)

There are 3590 sci-fi games. The distribution of ratings for sci-fi
games is left skewed with an average rating of 6.95 and a standard
deviation of 1.21. The most popular sci-fi video game(s) by rating
is/are The Last of Us, Metroid: Other M.

## Thriller Video Games

![Figure 9: Histogram distribution of IMDb ratings for thriller video
games. Ratings range from 0 (min) to 10 (max). The long dashes represent
the mean, while the short dashes represent +1 and -1 standard deviation
of the
mean.](IMDb-Video-Games-Data-Analysis_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-10-1.png)

There are 523 thriller games. The distribution of ratings for thriller
games is left skewed with an average rating of 7.11 and a standard
deviation of 1.2. The most popular thriller video game(s) by rating
is/are Cyberpunk 2077, God of War: Ghost of Sparta, ARK: Survival
Evolved.
